drizzle/docs/workflows/add-query.md, before:

# drizzle/add-query

## Source

[add-query.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/add-query.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff drizzle/add-query <path>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **example-query.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/queries/example-table/template-file.ts)
  - Upsert **example-query.test.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/queries/example-table/template-file.test.ts)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/queries/example-table/index.ts)
- Check if `/queries/example-table/index.ts` exists. If it doesn't exist, create it.
- Update `/queries/example-table/index.ts` to include the new query.
- Update the package's `index.ts` to export the query collection if it doesn't already.
- Add any new parameter or result types needed for `exampleQuery` to the main `types.ts` file.
- Add any error types the query will return to the main `errors.ts` file.
- Review documentation: [03-queries.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/docs/03-queries.md)
- Implement the `exampleQuery` query following the documentation guidelines.
- Review documentation: [04-testing.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/docs/04-testing.md)
- Implement `example-query.test.ts`.
- Run **example-query.test.ts**, make sure it passes.
- Run `npm run typecheck`

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff drizzle/add-query [options] <path>

Add a new query to a database built off the drizzle-sqlite3 package.

Arguments:
  path        Path of the new query (e.g. 'queries/contacts/get-by-id')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```

Commit message:

Update docs, version 0.2.0 workflows (#173)
Been a minute since I've updated the docs. This is driven by my getting
the next version of the workflow tool ready to publish.

In addition to updating the docs:
* Add a test in CI to make sure all checklists work, because not all of
them did.
* Fix some, in part by adding a "silentError" parameter for parsing
package names.
* For others, fix the example values to be valid.
* Add an "info" command to the workflow CLI tool so that the doc
generator can get that info again
* Fix github source links in a couple commands.
* Cleaned up some absolute paths in checklists.
* Add a `--start-from` option to `npm exec saf-docs generate-all`
* Some improved logging in doc generation
* Deprecate "skipIf" as options for steps, migrate to the generic option
* General doc and export cleanup for workflows, making sure the code
reference section for that library is solid

drizzle/docs/workflows/add-query.md, after:

# drizzle/add-query

## Source

[add-query.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/add-query.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff drizzle/add-query <path>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **example-query.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/queries/__group-name__/__target-name__.ts)
  - Upsert **example-query.test.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/queries/__group-name__/__target-name__.test.ts)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/queries/__group-name__/index.ts)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/index.ts)
  - Upsert **types.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/types.ts)
  - Upsert **errors.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/drizzle/workflows/templates/errors.ts)
- Add parameters and results to the root types.ts file and errors to the errors.ts files.
- Implement the new query following the documentation guidelines.
- Update the group index to include the new query.
- Run `npm run typecheck`
- Implement the generated test file.
- Run `npm run typecheck`
- Run `npm run test`

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: npm exec saf-workflow kickoff drizzle/add-query <path>

Add a new query to a database built off the drizzle-sqlite3 package.

Arguments:
  path        Path of the new query (e.g. 'queries/contacts/get-by-id')
              Example: "./queries/example/example-query.ts"

```
