index.md, before:

# Overview

SAF is Scott's Application Framework - I built it for me but also I'm making this repo public for people to use and play around with as they like. SAF is a full-featured web application framework using my preferred libraries and services, though I try to use more of the former than the latter. I aim for applications built with this to be:

- **Self-Contained**. The app should run with little setup or dependencies on outside services except for things that are really essential, such as dependable, trusted email services.
- **Feature Complete**. Provide the sorts of features you'd expect as an application developer or engineering manager to have on hand such as CI/CD pipeline, common backend services like background tasks or message queues, and code health reports. It should feel mature and modern.
- **Batteries Included**. Provides common features, services, and utilities. These might be simple libraries like common Express middleware configuration, or entire E2E services like sign-up/sign-in flows and an identity service.
- **Easy to Update**. I want to be able to pretty quickly build a new common tool in this repo and then share it with all the applications that use this framework. Or update things to the latest libraries. That's partly on the application, though, to have thorough and well-balanced testing.
- **Built for AI**. This is sort of my playground to experiment with and share methodologies and tools. In particular I'm organizing and documenting things so AI can be pointed at a doc or two and know what to do without having to scan the whole project.

## Documentation

The focus of the docs on this site are what's in `saflib`, which contains all the shared code across all SAF-based projects. It is a flat list of packages, spanning common dependencies and reusable features. It also stores all the documentation for both human and agent consumption.

[This site](https://docs.saf-demo.online/) provides a quick way to review the docs in a nice format, but you can also find these docs while you are coding with SAF by searching for their markdown files. You should include them as context in your prompts, and update them based on where the documentation falls short. See [this blog post](https://scotterickson.info/blog/2025-03-27-doc-driven-ai) for more info.

## Setup

To use these packages in a new project, you can create a project from [the official SAF template repo](https://github.com/sderickson/saf-template). You can also use the [SAF website repo](https://github.com/sderickson/saf-2025) as reference. The latter is what builds and serves this documentation using [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/).

To use these packages in an existing project:

1. Clone [`sderickson/saflib`](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib) into your repository somewhere as a git submodule.
2. Add the directory as a workspace for your root-level `package.json`. For example if you added the submodule at the root directory, you'd add `"saflib/*"` to your [`workspaces` field](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v11/configuring-npm/package-json#workspaces).
3. Run `npm install` or equivalent.

To use a given package, install it as a dependency in your own package, or as a dev dependency if it ends in `-dev`. The value of the dependency should be `"*"` so that it gets the workspace version. At time of writing, none of these packages are published to npm, though they certainly could be.

## Kinds of Packages

Packages tend to center around either **features** or **dependencies**. A **feature** package can be used to add a project-agnostic feature to your site (such as an auth flow or a cron service), or a set of related dependencies. In each case, they tend to require more than one package to get the job done.

For example, a full authentication feature includes the following packages:

- `auth-vue` - frontend components using Vue and related tech
- `auth-service` - the backend service with Dockerfile et al
- `auth-spec` - the specification for the API they share
- `auth-db` - the backend store which `auth-service` depends on

And a set of dependencies might be everything needed for a frontend SPA

- `vue-spa` - not just Vue, but also Vite, Tanstack Query, OpenAPI fetch, and other "runtime" dependencies
- `vue-spa-dev` - packages that go in the `devDependencies` section, such as `Vite`, `@types/*` for those above, etc.

"Dependency" packages just come in sets of two. "Feature" packages can come in a great many packages depending on how complicated it is.

If you're wondering which goes in which (why is "Vite" not a dev dependency?), the deciding factor is: does the Docker container require it?

Commit message:

Update docs (overview, drizzle, express) (#96)
After writing [Doc Driven
AI](https://scotterickson.info/blog/2025-03-27-doc-driven-ai), I found
that had limitations due to
[reliability](https://scotterickson.info/blog/2025-04-11-reliability)
and switched to a [workflow
approach](https://scotterickson.info/blog/2025-05-10-workflow-first-iteration).
So I stopped updating and really focusing on documentation as much.
However, I think to properly [govern LLMs writing
code](https://scotterickson.info/blog/2025-06-14-governing-products),
there really needs to be proper docs laying out what are the right and
wrong ways of doing things.

Also I think this will be helpful for any developers using this
framework other than myself.

So I'm overhauling them. Mainly,
* Making them more focused on laying out rules and justification, with
fewer example code bits and instead links to real examples.
* Pulling out overarching pieces like terminology and best practices,
which are not specific to this stack but would be useful to follow for
any stack designed for AI.

The main areas I've updated in this PR are the express and
drizzle-sqlite3 libraries, and a few tweaks to example code in the
identity service.

index.md, after:

# Overview

SAF is Scott's Application Framework - I built it for me, but also I'm making this repo public for people to use and explore as it reflects and is the source of my thinking on [my blog](https://scotterickson.info/blog). Simply put, SAF is a full-featured web application framework using my preferred libraries and services.

Guiding principles:

- **Self-Contained**. A new app should run with little setup or dependencies on outside services except essentials, such as dependable, trusted email services.
- **Feature Complete**. The framework provides the sorts of features you'd expect to have for modern web apps such as CI/CD pipeline, common backend services like background tasks or message queues, and code health reports.
- **Batteries Included**. Optional features, services, and utilities are included. These might be simple libraries like common Express middleware configuration, or entire E2E services like sign-up/sign-in flows and an identity service.
- **Easy to Update**. It should be seamless to build a new tool in this repo as part of one product and then adopt it with other applications that use this framework. It should also be easy to update to new versions of this framework. This depends on the application having thorough and well-balanced testing.
- **Built for AI**. This is my playground to experiment with and share methodologies and tools. Technical decisions and workflows are always made with AI coding agents in mind.

## Documentation

The focus of the docs on this site are what's in `saflib`, which contains all the shared code across all SAF-based projects. It is a (mostly) flat list of packages, spanning common dependencies and reusable features. It also stores documentation and workflows for both human and agent consumption.

[This site](https://docs.saf-demo.online/) provides a quick way to review the docs, but these docs are also accessible when coding with SAF by searching for their markdown files. Include them as context in prompts, and update them as part of normal work.

## Setup

To use these packages in a new project, you can create a project from [the official SAF template repo](https://github.com/sderickson/saf-template). You can also use the [SAF website repo](https://github.com/sderickson/saf-2025) as reference. The latter is what builds and serves this documentation using [VitePress](https://vitepress.dev/).

To use these packages in an existing project:

1. Clone [`sderickson/saflib`](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib) into your repository somewhere as a git submodule.
2. Add the directory as a workspace for your root-level `package.json`. For example if you added the submodule at the root directory, you'd add `"saflib/**"` to your [`workspaces` field](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v11/configuring-npm/package-json#workspaces).
3. Run `npm install` or equivalent.

To use a given package, install it as a dependency in your own package. The value of the dependency should be `"*"` so that it gets the workspace version. At time of writing, none of these packages are published to npm yet.
