express/docs/workflows/add-handler.md, before:

# express/add-handler

## Source

[add-handler.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/add-handler.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff express/add-handler <path>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Review documentation: [03-routes.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/docs/03-routes.md)
- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **example-handler.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/handler-template/template-file.ts)
  - Upsert **example-handler.test.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/handler-template/template-file.test.ts)
- Check if the feature router exists at `/routes/example-subpath/index.ts`. If it doesn't exist, create it with the basic structure to export the new route handler.
- Update the feature router at `/routes/example-subpath/index.ts` to include the new route handler.
- Check if the HTTP app exists at `/http.ts` or `/app.ts`. If neither exists, create one to mount your routes.
- Update the HTTP app to include the feature router.
- Implement the exampleHandler route handler. Make sure to:
- Review documentation: [04-testing.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/docs/04-testing.md)
- Update the generated example-handler.test.ts file following the testing guide patterns. Make sure to implement proper test cases that cover both success and error scenarios.
- Run **example-handler.test.ts**, make sure it passes.

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff express/add-handler [options] <path>

Add a new route to an Express.js service.

Arguments:
  path        Path of the new handler (e.g. 'routes/todos/create')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```

Commit message:

Add more composite workflows (#126)
Continuing to go down my existing workflows and update them to:
* Build out more bootstrapping workflows
* Test out having larger workflows, the new `cwd` step
* Get the templates more consistently organized

So changes include:
* Updating template folders to just be named "templates", putting all
workflows in the same package into that folder.
* Minor fixes to the `express/add-handler` workflow
* Add `express/init` workflow
* Add `openapi/init` workflow
* Add `openapi/add-schema` workflow
* Add `openapi/add-route` workflow
* Remove `openapi/update-schema` workflow
* Add a test workflow for `openapi` and `express` workflows together
* Fix "saf-specs generate" command to create a schemas folder if it DNE
* Fix "saf-docs generate-all" to *actually* update all the docs properly

A few changes to the workflows cli tool as well:
* Merged `kickoff` and `kickoff-unlisted`, realizing how to do so better
with commander.
* Fixed the status command.
* Added "skipIf" input property for command step
* Fixed "cwd" step to take absolute paths
* Add "valid" input property for update step
* Fixed my recursion logic for continuing a workflow machine
* A few documentation fixes
* Updates to the "add-workflow" command.

Regarding the "add-workflow" command, honestly I'm having a bit more
trouble with this workflow, in particular getting the agent to set up
template files correctly. This is maybe a little more advanced, unusual,
and important than other workflows to get right, so it's probably the
best one to test new methods of reliability.

express/docs/workflows/add-handler.md, after:

# express/add-handler

## Source

[add-handler.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/add-handler.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff express/add-handler <path>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Make sure this package has the correct spec package installed.
- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **example-handler.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/templates/routes/example/template-file.ts)
  - Upsert **example-handler.test.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/templates/routes/example/template-file.test.ts)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/workflows/templates/routes/example/index.ts)
- Update the feature router at `/routes/example-subpath/index.ts` to include the new route handler.
- Update the HTTP app to include the feature router, if not already there.
- Review documentation: [03-routes.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/docs/03-routes.md)
- Implement the exampleHandler route handler. Make sure to:
- Review documentation: [04-testing.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/express/docs/04-testing.md)
- Update the generated example-handler.test.ts file following the testing guide patterns. Make sure to implement proper test cases that cover both success and error scenarios.
- Run **example-handler.test.ts**, make sure it passes.

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff express/add-handler [options] <path>

Add a new route to an Express.js service.

Arguments:
  path        Path of the new handler (e.g. 'routes/todos/create')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```
