playwright/docs/overview.md, before:

# Overview

[Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is a key part in making sure everything in the product works together, and this library provides some useful utilities for making the most of it.

## String Locators

Despite Playwright's [wide array of locators](https://playwright.dev/docs/locators) and [helpful tools](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen), I find I spend too much time setting up and fixing string locators as the UI changes. The main difficulty is how exact and precise they need to be, and minor changes in copy can spawn a great many fixes.

This is where [sharing strings](../../best-practices.md#specify-and-enforce-shared-apis-models-and-strings) really comes in handy. By structuring client strings in a consistent way and making them available outside of client packages _without_ depending on client build systems (rollup, vite, etc.), Playwright can use the same exact strings the client does and enforce that through type checking. There's no more duplicating the same strings across Playwright tests and client code.

It's also important that these strings be organized to match HTML attributes. Strings are stored in objects that follow [this type](../../utils/docs/ref/interfaces/ElementStringObject.md); an object with keys such as `"aria-label"`, `"text"`, `"role"`, etc.

Then, Vue can bind the entire object to the element like this:

```html
<button v-bind="elementStringObject" />
```

And Playwright, given the same object, can [use the best locator for the job](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/3d6b57ea4a4e4abcdca96826413585c3a0844c1d/playwright/index.ts#L26-L48), given what's available.

See `@saflib/vue` for more information on how to define and export strings.

## User Journeys

Playwright tests should live in the client package which they mainly test, and they should test the important user journeys the client implements. These user journeys should come from the designs provided, so that Playwright tests enforce that designed user journeys continue to work as expected.

Playwright tests can also provide a record of these user journeys, for review and feedback. Playwright tests should use the provided [`attachScreenshot`](./ref/functions/attachScreenshot.md) function to create a visual record of the user journey for easier review. These can be shipped to where others in the organization can see them, for understanding a given client package, or for QA.

Commit message:

Updates for updated saf-template (#113)
These are updates to support the
https://github.com/sderickson/saf-template/pull/1 changes. This also
included moving some playwright and vite goodness into saflib.

Includes:
* Add `DOMAIN_REDIRECTS` and `SERVICE_SUBDOMAINS` to the shared
environment variables.
* Add a better error to the env CLI tool if a dependency DNE
* Add back the health check middleware, get playwright to check health
of all the node services
* Set up the default auth router to use the default redirect for login,
logout, register
* Simplify auth package tanstack query types
* Fix/update some identity subsystems
* Add playwright config to @saflib/playwright
* Add @saflib/vite and put config in there
* Fix workflow "next" command

playwright/docs/overview.md, after:

# Overview

[Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is a key part in making sure everything in the product works together, and this library provides some useful utilities for making the most of it.

## String Locators

Despite Playwright's [wide array of locators](https://playwright.dev/docs/locators) and [helpful tools](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen), I find I spend too much time setting up and fixing string locators as the UI changes. The main difficulty is how exact and precise they need to be, and minor changes in copy can spawn a great many fixes.

This is where [sharing strings](../../best-practices.md#specify-and-enforce-shared-apis-models-and-strings) really comes in handy. By structuring client strings in a consistent way and making them available outside of client packages _without_ depending on client build systems (rollup, vite, etc.), Playwright can use the same exact strings the client does and enforce that through type checking. There's no more duplicating the same strings across Playwright tests and client code.

It's also important that these strings be organized to match HTML attributes. Strings are stored in objects that follow [this type](../../utils/docs/ref/interfaces/ElementStringObject.md); an object with keys such as `"aria-label"`, `"text"`, `"role"`, etc.

Then, Vue can bind the entire object to the element like this:

```html
<button v-bind="elementStringObject" />
```

And Playwright, given the same object, can [use the best locator for the job](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/3d6b57ea4a4e4abcdca96826413585c3a0844c1d/playwright/index.ts#L26-L48), given what's available.

See `@saflib/vue` for more information on how to define and export strings.

## User Journeys

Playwright tests should live in the client package which they mainly test, and they should test the important user journeys the client implements. These user journeys should come from the designs provided, so that Playwright tests enforce that designed user journeys continue to work as expected.

Playwright tests can also provide a record of these user journeys, for review and feedback. Playwright tests should use the provided [`attachScreenshot`](./ref/@saflib/playwright/functions/attachScreenshot.md) function to create a visual record of the user journey for easier review. These can be shipped to where others in the organization can see them, for understanding a given client package, or for QA.

## Playwright Config

`@saflib/playwright` includes a default playwright config with the following features:

- Firefox and Chromium browsers
- A global setup test which checks the health of services listed in `SERVICE_SUBDOMAINS` environment variable.
- Some more aggressive timeouts; by default they're 30 seconds, I changed them to 10 seconds.
