workflows/docs/ref/interfaces/WorkflowDefinition.md, before:

[**@saflib/workflows**](../index.md)

---

# Interface: WorkflowDefinition\<I, C\>

An interface that includes the inputs, files, steps, and everything else that makes up a workflow. Can be used to create an XState machine which can be used in other workflows, and an XStateWorkflowRunner which will execute just the workflow itself.

## Type Parameters

| Type Parameter                                                     | Default type |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| `I` _extends_ readonly [`WorkflowArgument`](WorkflowArgument.md)[] | `any`        |
| `C`                                                                | `any`        |

## Properties

### checklistDescription()?

> `optional` **checklistDescription**: (`context`) => `string`

Description that will be printed when the workflow itself is part of a checklist.
Experimental! Still need to experiment with workflows in workflows.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type |
| --------- | ---- |
| `context` | `C`  |

#### Returns

`string`

---

### context()

> **context**: (`arg`) => `C`

The context specific to this workflow, generated from the input and available to use in each step.

#### Parameters

| Parameter   | Type                                               |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `arg`       | \{ `input`: `CreateArgsType`\<`I`\> & `object`; \} |
| `arg.input` | `CreateArgsType`\<`I`\> & `object`                 |

#### Returns

`C`

---

### description

> **description**: `string`

Description of the workflow which will be shown in the CLI tool.

---

### docFiles

> **docFiles**: `Record`\<`string`, `string`\>

A map of ids to doc file absolute paths which will be referenced as part of the workflow.

---

### id

> **id**: `string`

Unique id for the workflow, for invoking it with the CLI tool.

---

### input

> **input**: `I`

The input specific to this workflow.

---

### sourceUrl

> **sourceUrl**: `string`

The source URL of the workflow. Set to import.meta.url.

---

### steps

> **steps**: [`WorkflowStep`](../type-aliases/WorkflowStep.md)\<`C`, `AnyStateMachine`\>[]

An array of steps to be executed in the workflow. Each step is a state machine, and a function which takes the context and returns the input for the state machine.

---

### templateFiles

> **templateFiles**: `Record`\<`string`, `string`\>

A map of ids to template file absolute paths which will be copied and updated as part of the workflow.

Commit message:

Update docs, version 0.2.0 workflows (#173)
Been a minute since I've updated the docs. This is driven by my getting
the next version of the workflow tool ready to publish.

In addition to updating the docs:
* Add a test in CI to make sure all checklists work, because not all of
them did.
* Fix some, in part by adding a "silentError" parameter for parsing
package names.
* For others, fix the example values to be valid.
* Add an "info" command to the workflow CLI tool so that the doc
generator can get that info again
* Fix github source links in a couple commands.
* Cleaned up some absolute paths in checklists.
* Add a `--start-from` option to `npm exec saf-docs generate-all`
* Some improved logging in doc generation
* Deprecate "skipIf" as options for steps, migrate to the generic option
* General doc and export cleanup for workflows, making sure the code
reference section for that library is solid

workflows/docs/ref/interfaces/WorkflowDefinition.md, after:

[**@saflib/workflows**](../index.md)

---

# Interface: WorkflowDefinition\<I, C\>

An interface that includes everything that makes up a workflow.

## Type Parameters

| Type Parameter                                                     | Default type |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| `I` _extends_ readonly [`WorkflowArgument`](WorkflowArgument.md)[] | `any`        |
| `C`                                                                | `any`        |

## Properties

### checklistDescription()?

> `optional` **checklistDescription**: (`context`) => `string`

Description that will be printed when the workflow itself is part of a checklist.
Experimental! Still need to experiment with workflows in workflows.

#### Parameters

| Parameter | Type |
| --------- | ---- |
| `context` | `C`  |

#### Returns

`string`

---

### context()

> **context**: (`arg`) => `C`

The context specific to this workflow, generated from the input and available to use in each step.

#### Parameters

| Parameter   | Type                                               |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `arg`       | \{ `input`: `CreateArgsType`\<`I`\> & `object`; \} |
| `arg.input` | `CreateArgsType`\<`I`\> & `object`                 |

#### Returns

`C`

---

### description

> **description**: `string`

Description of the workflow which will be shown in the CLI tool.

---

### docFiles

> **docFiles**: `Record`\<`string`, `string`\>

A map of ids to doc file absolute paths which will be referenced as part of the workflow.

---

### id

> **id**: `string`

Unique id for the workflow, for invoking it with the CLI tool.

---

### input

> **input**: `I`

The input specific to this workflow.

---

### sourceUrl

> **sourceUrl**: `string`

The source URL of the workflow. Set to import.meta.url.

---

### steps

> **steps**: [`WorkflowStep`](../type-aliases/WorkflowStep.md)\<`C`, `AnyStateMachine`\>[]

An array of steps to be executed in the workflow. Each step is a state machine, and a function which takes the context and returns the input for the state machine.

---

### templateFiles

> **templateFiles**: `Record`\<`string`, `string`\>

A map of ids to template file absolute paths which will be copied and updated as part of the workflow.

---

### versionControl?

> `optional` **versionControl**: `object`

Configure version control for the workflow. Right now, just provide paths which the workflow will consider safe to change as part of the workflow.

#### allowPaths?

> `optional` **allowPaths**: `string`[]
