drizzle/docs/ref/index.md, before:

**@saflib/drizzle**

---

# @saflib/drizzle

## Classes

| Class                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DbManager](classes/DbManager.md)                           | A class which mainly manages "connections" to the sqlite3 database and drizzle ORM. Any package which depends on this will create a single instance given the database schema and config, export the public interface, and be used by queries to access the drizzle ORM. This way the package which depends on `@saflib/drizzle` has full access to its database, but packages which depend on _it_ only have access to an opaque key which only database queries can use. |
| [HandledDatabaseError](classes/HandledDatabaseError.md)     | A subclass of `Error` which is used to indicate that an error was caught and handled by the database library. Database packages should subclass this error, and these are not necessarily considered bugs if they occur.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| [UnhandledDatabaseError](classes/UnhandledDatabaseError.md) | A subclass of `Error` which is used to indicate that an error was _not_ caught and handled by the database library. The cause of the error is not propagated, since consumers of the database libary should not have access to underlying SQL issues.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Interfaces

| Interface                            | Description                                                    |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DbOptions](interfaces/DbOptions.md) | When a "connection" is created, these parameters are provided. |

## Type Aliases

| Type Alias                                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DbConnection](type-aliases/DbConnection.md)               | The result of calling `drizzle`, typed to the schema you connected to.                                                                                                                                      |
| [DbKey](type-aliases/DbKey.md)                             | A symbol returned when connecting to the database. This key should be provided to any queries used by the consumer of the package. This is the only way a database consumer may interact with the database. |
| [DbTransaction](type-aliases/DbTransaction.md)             | Convenience type; the `tx` object passed to the drizzle transaction callback, with a generic parameter for the schema.                                                                                      |
| [Equal](type-aliases/Equal.md)                             | To be used with "Expect" to check explicit table interfaces match Drizzle's inferred interfaces.                                                                                                            |
| [Expect](type-aliases/Expect.md)                           | To be used with "Equal" to check explicit table interfaces match Drizzle's inferred interfaces.                                                                                                             |
| [Schema](type-aliases/Schema.md)                           | Currently this package expects the schema to be an object where some values are the result of `sqliteTable` calls. Organize your schema in this fashion when creating your DbManager and such.              |
| [TransactionCallback](type-aliases/TransactionCallback.md) | Convenience type; the first parameter of the `transaction` method, with a generic parameter for the schema.                                                                                                 |

## Functions

| Function                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [queryWrapper](functions/queryWrapper.md) | All queries should use this wrapper. It will catch and obfuscate unhandled errors, and rethrow handled errors, though really handled errors should be returned, not thrown. |

Commit message:

Update docs, version 0.2.0 workflows (#173)
Been a minute since I've updated the docs. This is driven by my getting
the next version of the workflow tool ready to publish.

In addition to updating the docs:
* Add a test in CI to make sure all checklists work, because not all of
them did.
* Fix some, in part by adding a "silentError" parameter for parsing
package names.
* For others, fix the example values to be valid.
* Add an "info" command to the workflow CLI tool so that the doc
generator can get that info again
* Fix github source links in a couple commands.
* Cleaned up some absolute paths in checklists.
* Add a `--start-from` option to `npm exec saf-docs generate-all`
* Some improved logging in doc generation
* Deprecate "skipIf" as options for steps, migrate to the generic option
* General doc and export cleanup for workflows, making sure the code
reference section for that library is solid

drizzle/docs/ref/index.md, after:

**@saflib/drizzle**

---

# @saflib/drizzle

## Classes

| Class                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DbManager](classes/DbManager.md)                           | A class which mainly manages "connections" to the sqlite3 database and drizzle ORM. Any package which depends on this will create a single instance given the database schema and config, export the public interface, and be used by queries to access the drizzle ORM. This way the package which depends on `@saflib/drizzle` has full access to its database, but packages which depend on _it_ only have access to an opaque key which only database queries can use. |
| [HandledDatabaseError](classes/HandledDatabaseError.md)     | A subclass of `Error` which is used to indicate that an error was caught and handled by the database library. Database packages should subclass this error, and these are not necessarily considered bugs if they occur.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| [UnhandledDatabaseError](classes/UnhandledDatabaseError.md) | A subclass of `Error` which is used to indicate that an error was _not_ caught and handled by the database library. The cause of the error is not propagated, since consumers of the database libary should not have access to underlying SQL issues.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Interfaces

| Interface                            | Description                                                    |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Address](interfaces/Address.md)     | A shared address type that can be used across the platform.    |
| [DbOptions](interfaces/DbOptions.md) | When a "connection" is created, these parameters are provided. |

## Type Aliases

| Type Alias                                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [DbConnection](type-aliases/DbConnection.md)               | The result of calling `drizzle`, typed to the schema you connected to.                                                                                                                                      |
| [DbKey](type-aliases/DbKey.md)                             | A symbol returned when connecting to the database. This key should be provided to any queries used by the consumer of the package. This is the only way a database consumer may interact with the database. |
| [DbTransaction](type-aliases/DbTransaction.md)             | Convenience type; the `tx` object passed to the drizzle transaction callback, with a generic parameter for the schema.                                                                                      |
| [Equal](type-aliases/Equal.md)                             | To be used with "Expect" to check explicit table interfaces match Drizzle's inferred interfaces.                                                                                                            |
| [Expect](type-aliases/Expect.md)                           | To be used with "Equal" to check explicit table interfaces match Drizzle's inferred interfaces.                                                                                                             |
| [Schema](type-aliases/Schema.md)                           | Currently this package expects the schema to be an object where some values are the result of `sqliteTable` calls. Organize your schema in this fashion when creating your DbManager and such.              |
| [TransactionCallback](type-aliases/TransactionCallback.md) | Convenience type; the first parameter of the `transaction` method, with a generic parameter for the schema.                                                                                                 |

## Variables

| Variable                                    | Description                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [addressSchema](variables/addressSchema.md) | Drizzle schema for Address type. Use this in your table definitions for address fields. |

## Functions

| Function                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [queryWrapper](functions/queryWrapper.md) | All queries should use this wrapper. It will catch and obfuscate unhandled errors, and rethrow handled errors, though really handled errors should be returned, not thrown. |
