workflows/docs/workflows/add-workflow.md, before:

# add-workflow

## Source

[add-workflow.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/workflows/workflows/add-workflow.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff add-workflow <name>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **example-workflow.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/workflows/workflows/add-workflow.templates/template-file.ts)
- Add name, description, and cliArguments to the newly created workflows/example-workflow.ts.
- Export **example-workflow** from **@saflib/workflows**.
- Add `@saflib/workflows` as a dependency of `@saflib/workflows-cli`.
- Add `@saflib/workflows` to `@saflib/workflows-cli`'s list of workflows.
- Check that the new workflow appears in the saf-workflow CLI tool.
- Stop and understand the workflow requirements before proceeding.
- Create template files for example-workflow workflow.
- Implement the workflow logic in workflows/example-workflow.ts.
- Review the checklist and verify that the workflow was added correctly.

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff add-workflow [options] <name>

Create a new workflow and adds it to the CLI tool. Stops after setup to wait for
implementation requirements.

Arguments:
  name        The name of the new workflow to create (e.g.,
              'refactor-component')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```

Commit message:

Publish saflib-workflows (#116)
Right.

So having overhauled this library in #114, this gets everything ship
shape for npm.

* Add LICENSE
* Tested the add-workflow to make sure it works by adding drizzle/init
workflow 🔥
* Add CHANGELOG
* Remove all internal dependencies, and some external dependencies, from
the workflow library.
* Overhauled logging as a result because winston was messing things up?
Also seemed like overkill.
* Move some workflow machine guards to setup, because apparently types
mess up packing otherwise. XState types are...
* Add a custom "lineReplace" input for the copy machine, specifically
for adding a workflow to deal with the public package having a different
name than my internal one (more on that later).
* Replace "getGitHubUrl" which was creating urls to my repo, with
"getSourceUrl" so other workflow CLIs can link to their own repos.
* Export some types so build work.
* Make sure the README works on npm's site.
* Add the whole publishing mechanisms.

In terms of packaging, I decided I wanted to keep the tsconfig and
package for distribution separate from the one I use internally. This is
so that:

* Intellisense takes me to the TypeScript file when I follow a ref to
the workflow library, rather than a compiled JS or types file.
* Trying to get my preferred development rules, and the build rules, to
be the same was no bueno.
* I'm using private namespaces for my repo, but I'm not convinced that's
worth $7/mo to publish so I'm publishing with a public name instead.

So the "dist" folder in the workflows is the distributed package. The
process for publishing is to run `npm run pack` in the workflows , then
`npm publish` in the dist folder. I did this on the latest commit on
this branch, then I'll merge it in and tag/release that commit as the
same thing (though not technically? I'll sort out a more well defined
release process as I go).

🚢

workflows/docs/workflows/add-workflow.md, after:

# workflows/add-workflow

## Source

[add-workflow.ts](add-workflow.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff workflows/add-workflow <name>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **example-workflow.ts** from [template](template-file.ts)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](index.ts)
- Add name, description, and cliArguments to the newly created workflows/example-workflow.ts.
- Export **example-workflow** from **@example/package**.
- Find the file which gathers all workflows to include them in the saf-workflow CLI tool.
- If needed, install `@example/package` as a dependency of the package that contains that file you found.
- Add `@example/package`'s exported workflows to the CLI file's list of workflows.
- Check that the new workflow appears in the saf-workflow CLI tool.
- Review documentation: [README.md](README.md)
- Create template files for example-workflow workflow.
- Add documentation links to the workflow.
- Add steps to workflows/example-workflow.ts.
- Review the checklist and verify that the workflow was added correctly.

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff workflows/add-workflow [options] <name>

Create a new workflow and adds it to the CLI tool. Stops after setup to wait for
implementation requirements.

Arguments:
  name        The name of the new workflow to create (e.g.,
              'refactor-component')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```
