openapi-specs/docs/03-updates.md, before:

# Updates

A spec package contains OpenAPI specifications. These generate types used in TypeScript on both client and server, json objects which are used by node/express to validate responses and requests, and an html file for exploring your APIs. This document goes over how to update these APIs and update these outputs.

## Directory Structure

```
<your-spec-package>/
├── openapi.yaml       # Root OpenAPI specification
├── routes/           # Route specifications
│   ├── auth.yaml
│   ├── todos.yaml
│   └── ...
└── schemas/          # Shared schema definitions
    ├── user.yaml
    ├── error.yaml
    └── ...
```

## Adding New Endpoints to Your API Specs

When adding new endpoints to your project's API specifications, follow these guidelines:

1. Create schema file in `schemas/` if needed

   ```yaml
   type: object
   properties:
     id:
       type: integer
     # ... other properties
   required:
     - id
     # ... other required fields
   ```

2. Create route file in `routes/` following this pattern:

   ```yaml
   get:
     summary: List all items
     operationId: listItems # IMPORTANT: Always include operationId for type generation
     tags:
       - Feature Name
     responses:
       "200":
         description: Success response
         content:
           application/json:
             schema:
               type: array
               items:
                 $ref: "../schemas/your-schema.yaml"
       "401":
         description: Unauthorized
         content:
           application/json:
             schema:
               $ref: "../schemas/error.yaml"

   /{id}:
     get:
       operationId: getItem # IMPORTANT: Always include operationId
       # Single item endpoint
     put:
       operationId: updateItem # IMPORTANT: Always include operationId
       # Update endpoint
   ```

3. Add paths to `openapi.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   paths:
     /your-feature:
       get:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/get"
       post:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/post"
     /your-feature/{id}:
       get:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/{id}/get"
       put:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/{id}/put"
   ```

4. Add schema reference to components in `openapi.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   components:
     schemas:
       YourFeature:
         $ref: "./schemas/your-feature.yaml"
   ```

5. Generate types and validation:
   ```bash
   cd specs/apis
   npm run generate
   ```

## API Best Practices

### General Guidelines

- **Always include `operationId`**: This is required for proper type generation in the TypeScript clients.
- **Do not include `security` sections**: The security handling is currently managed separately and not used in the OpenAPI specs.
- **Use consistent naming**: Use kebab-case for paths (`/user-profiles`) and camelCase for operationIds (`getUserProfile`).
- **Group related endpoints**: Add tags to group related endpoints for better organization.

### Data Type Best Practices

- **Currency**: Always use integers (cents) instead of floats to avoid floating-point precision issues.

  ```yaml
  price:
    type: integer
    description: Price in cents (e.g., 1000 = $10.00)
  ```

- **Dates and Times**: Use ISO 8601 format strings for dates and times.

  ```yaml
  createdAt:
    type: string
    format: date-time
    description: Creation timestamp in ISO 8601 format
  ```

- **IDs**: Use integer types for database IDs (for SQLite compatibility).

  ```yaml
  id:
    type: integer
    description: Unique identifier
  ```

- **Enums**: Define enum values explicitly for better type safety.
  ```yaml
  status:
    type: string
    enum: [pending, active, completed]
    description: Current status of the item
  ```

### Response Structure

- Always include appropriate error responses (401, 403, 404, 500)
- Use consistent response structures across all endpoints
- Include pagination metadata for list endpoints

### Request Validation

- Define request validation rules in the schema
- Include examples where helpful
- Document required vs. optional fields clearly
- Always set `additionalProperties: false` on object schemas to ensure strict validation and prevent unexpected properties

## Common Patterns

- Follow existing examples in routes/ for consistent structure
- Include error responses with error schema
- Use descriptive summaries and descriptions
- Use strict schema validation with `additionalProperties: false` to prevent unexpected properties

Commit message:

Workflow additions, updates (#30)
More workflow development. I'm finding a common pattern for workflows,
queries, pages, and other "things" of which there are usually many in a
given package:

* Review documentation
* Copy in some template files
* Upsert connective tissue (export queries, add pages to routes,
handlers to routers, create index files...)
* Add implementation
* Review test documentation
* Add tests
* Run tests, confirm they pass

It'll be helpful to be able to share these common components between
workflows.

More specifically what I've worked on:
* Made the add-queries (for drizzle) more like this template. Also
generally improved the workflow.
* Added an "add-route" (for express) workflow.
* Fix for add-ts-package workflow
* Figured out how to better share schemas between route schemas
* Refactored setupMockServer to requests.ts
* Also moved tanstack-specific code into separate tanstack.ts file...
might split out into a separate package
* Added tanstack query workflow

openapi-specs/docs/03-updates.md, after:

# Updates

A spec package contains OpenAPI specifications. These generate types used in TypeScript on both client and server, json objects which are used by node/express to validate responses and requests, and an html file for exploring your APIs. This document goes over how to update these APIs and update these outputs.

## DRY Schemas with Properties Reference

**Best Practice:** When defining request bodies for create/update endpoints, use a direct reference to the properties from your main schema to avoid repeating all properties. This keeps your spec DRY and easier to maintain.

**Example:**

```yaml
post:
  summary: Create a new contact
  requestBody:
    required: true
    content:
      application/json:
        schema:
          type: object
          properties:
            $ref: "../schemas/contact.yaml#/properties"
          required:
            - relationship_to_owner
```

This approach:

- Reuses all property definitions from the main schema
- Allows you to specify different required fields for requests vs responses
- Keeps the schema DRY by referencing properties directly
- Works for both POST (create) and PUT (update) operations

The backend can ignore fields it doesn't use, and the response schemas can still use the full schema reference which includes all required fields for responses.

## Directory Structure

```
<your-spec-package>/
├── openapi.yaml       # Root OpenAPI specification
├── routes/           # Route specifications
│   ├── auth.yaml
│   ├── todos.yaml
│   └── ...
└── schemas/          # Shared schema definitions
    ├── user.yaml
    ├── error.yaml
    └── ...
```

## Adding New Endpoints to Your API Specs

When adding new endpoints to your project's API specifications, follow these guidelines:

1. Create schema file in `schemas/` if needed

   ```yaml
   type: object
   properties:
     id:
       type: integer
     # ... other properties
   required:
     - id
     # ... other required fields
   ```

2. Create route file in `routes/` following this pattern:

   ```yaml
   get:
     summary: List all items
     operationId: listItems # IMPORTANT: Always include operationId for type generation
     tags:
       - Feature Name
     responses:
       "200":
         description: Success response
         content:
           application/json:
             schema:
               type: array
               items:
                 $ref: "../schemas/your-schema.yaml"
       "401":
         description: Unauthorized
         content:
           application/json:
             schema:
               $ref: "../schemas/error.yaml"

   /{id}:
     get:
       operationId: getItem # IMPORTANT: Always include operationId
       # Single item endpoint
     put:
       operationId: updateItem # IMPORTANT: Always include operationId
       # Update endpoint
   ```

3. Add paths to `openapi.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   paths:
     /your-feature:
       get:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/get"
       post:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/post"
     /your-feature/{id}:
       get:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/{id}/get"
       put:
         $ref: "./routes/your-feature.yaml#/{id}/put"
   ```

4. Add schema reference to components in `openapi.yaml`:

   ```yaml
   components:
     schemas:
       YourFeature:
         $ref: "./schemas/your-feature.yaml"
   ```

5. Generate types and validation:
   ```bash
   cd specs/apis
   npm run generate
   ```

## API Best Practices

### General Guidelines

- **Always include `operationId`**: This is required for proper type generation in the TypeScript clients.
- **Do not include `security` sections**: The security handling is currently managed separately and not used in the OpenAPI specs.
- **Use consistent naming**: Use kebab-case for paths (`/user-profiles`) and camelCase for operationIds (`getUserProfile`).
- **Group related endpoints**: Add tags to group related endpoints for better organization.

### Data Type Best Practices

- **Currency**: Always use integers (cents) instead of floats to avoid floating-point precision issues.

  ```yaml
  price:
    type: integer
    description: Price in cents (e.g., 1000 = $10.00)
  ```

- **Dates and Times**: Use ISO 8601 format strings for dates and times.

  ```yaml
  createdAt:
    type: string
    format: date-time
    description: Creation timestamp in ISO 8601 format
  ```

- **IDs**: Use integer types for database IDs (for SQLite compatibility).

  ```yaml
  id:
    type: integer
    description: Unique identifier
  ```

- **Enums**: Define enum values explicitly for better type safety.
  ```yaml
  status:
    type: string
    enum: [pending, active, completed]
    description: Current status of the item
  ```

### Response Structure

- Always include appropriate error responses (401, 403, 404, 500)
- Use consistent response structures across all endpoints
- Include pagination metadata for list endpoints

### Request Validation

- Define request validation rules in the schema
- Include examples where helpful
- Document required vs. optional fields clearly
- Always set `additionalProperties: false` on object schemas to ensure strict validation and prevent unexpected properties

## Common Patterns

- Follow existing examples in routes/ for consistent structure
- Include error responses with error schema
- Use descriptive summaries and descriptions
- Use strict schema validation with `additionalProperties: false` to prevent unexpected properties
