vue/docs/workflows/add-spa-page.md, before:

# add-spa-page

## Source

[add-spa-page.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/add-spa-page.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff add-spa-page <name>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.loader.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.loader.ts)
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.strings.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.strings.ts)
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.test.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.test.ts)
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.vue** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.vue)
  - Upsert **ExamplePageAsync.vue** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFileAsync.vue)
- Update ExamplePage.loader.ts to remove TODOs
- Update ExamplePage.vue to remove TODOs
- Find the "links" package adjacent to this package. Add the link for the new page there along with the others.
- Update router.ts to remove TODOs
- Update ExamplePage.test.ts to remove TODOs
- Run test, make sure it passes.
- Update ExamplePage.strings.ts to remove TODOs
- Find the strings.ts file in the root of the package. Add the strings from the file you just updated there.
- Update ExamplePage.vue to remove TODOs
- Update ExamplePage.test.ts to remove TODOs
- Run test, make sure it passes.
- Have the human run the website and confirm that the page looks and works as expected.

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff add-spa-page [options] <name>

Create a new page in a SAF-powered Vue SPA, using a template and renaming
placeholders.

Arguments:
  name        Name of the new page in kebab-case (e.g. 'welcome-new-user')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```

Commit message:

Overhaul workflows (#114)
Having moved all workflows to an XState-based structure, I decided I
should keep the power of XState but hide the complexity. This PR gets
rid of the `ConcreteWorkflow` as the workflow "unit" to export, and
instead uses an object that follows a `WorkflowDefinition` interface.

The main value to this is it's much easier to read and maintain a
workflow, and to see what are the main elements. It also makes the
package interface muuuuuch better.

This PR then has:
* Updated all workflows to use this new definition format.
* Added tests which dry run each of them.
* Cleaned up and reorganized the workflows package.
* Updated the workflow package's README
* Namespaced and adjusted some workflow names

Some other changes:
* Prettier'd some files
* Added another global that ended up being used in vue testing
* Added a "generate-all" command to "saf-docs" CLI, and ran it to update
all docs.

vue/docs/workflows/add-spa-page.md, after:

# add-spa-page

## Source

[add-spa-page.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/add-spa-page.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff add-spa-page <name>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.loader.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.loader.ts)
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.vue** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.vue)
  - Upsert **ExamplePageAsync.vue** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFileAsync.vue)
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.strings.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.strings.ts)
  - Upsert **ExamplePage.test.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/vue/workflows/page-template/TemplateFile.test.ts)
- Update **ExamplePage.loader.ts**: return Tanstack queries needed to render the page.
- Update **ExamplePage.vue**: take the data from the loader, assert that it's loaded, and render sample data.
- Find the "links" package adjacent to this package. Add the link for the new page there along with the others.
- Update the new page to **router.ts**.
- Update **ExamplePage.test.ts**: test that the page renders.
- Run **ExamplePage.test.ts**, make sure it passes.
- Update **ExamplePage.strings.ts**: include all text from the design.
- Add those strings to the **strings.ts** file in the root of the package.
- Update **ExamplePage.vue** to match the design and use the translation system.
- Update **ExamplePage.test.ts** to verify that the page renders correctly with the new design and translation system.
- Run **ExamplePage.test.ts**, make sure it passes.
- Run tests in the package, make sure they all pass.

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff add-spa-page [options] <name>

Create a new page in a SAF-powered Vue SPA, using a template and renaming
placeholders.

Arguments:
  name        Name of the new page in kebab-case (e.g. 'welcome-new-user')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```
