identity/identity-common/docs/ref/index.md, before:

**@saflib/identity-common**

---

# @saflib/identity-common

## Interfaces

| Interface                                                          | Description                                                                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [IdentityServerOptions](interfaces/IdentityServerOptions.md)       | Options for the identity service.                                                                                 |
| [IdentityServiceCallbacks](interfaces/IdentityServiceCallbacks.md) | Callbacks for events which occur in the identity service. This is the main way to hook into the identity service. |

## Variables

| Variable                                              | Description                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| [authServiceStorage](variables/authServiceStorage.md) | AsyncLocalStorage for the identity service. |

Commit message:

Update docs, version 0.2.0 workflows (#173)
Been a minute since I've updated the docs. This is driven by my getting
the next version of the workflow tool ready to publish.

In addition to updating the docs:
* Add a test in CI to make sure all checklists work, because not all of
them did.
* Fix some, in part by adding a "silentError" parameter for parsing
package names.
* For others, fix the example values to be valid.
* Add an "info" command to the workflow CLI tool so that the doc
generator can get that info again
* Fix github source links in a couple commands.
* Cleaned up some absolute paths in checklists.
* Add a `--start-from` option to `npm exec saf-docs generate-all`
* Some improved logging in doc generation
* Deprecate "skipIf" as options for steps, migrate to the generic option
* General doc and export cleanup for workflows, making sure the code
reference section for that library is solid

identity/identity-common/docs/ref/index.md, after:

**@saflib/identity-common**

---

# @saflib/identity-common

## Interfaces

| Interface                                                                        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [IdentityCommonEnvSchema](interfaces/IdentityCommonEnvSchema.md)                 | Environment variables for the `@saflib/identity-common` package, including inherited variables. Generated by `@saflib/env`. To update, make changes to the adjacent `env.schema.json`, navigate to the package root, and run `npm exec saf-env generate`. |
| [IdentityServerOptions](interfaces/IdentityServerOptions.md)                     | Options for the identity service.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [IdentityServiceCallbacks](interfaces/IdentityServiceCallbacks.md)               | Callbacks for events which occur in the identity service. This is the main way to hook into the identity service.                                                                                                                                         |
| [PasswordResetPayload](interfaces/PasswordResetPayload.md)                       | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [PasswordUpdatedPayload](interfaces/PasswordUpdatedPayload.md)                   | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [UserCreatedPayload](interfaces/UserCreatedPayload.md)                           | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [UserVerifiedPayload](interfaces/UserVerifiedPayload.md)                         | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| [VerificationTokenCreatedPayload](interfaces/VerificationTokenCreatedPayload.md) | -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

## Variables

| Variable                                              | Description                                                 |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| [authServiceStorage](variables/authServiceStorage.md) | AsyncLocalStorage for the identity service.                 |
| [typedEnv](variables/typedEnv.md)                     | `process.env` casted to the `IdentityCommonEnvSchema` type. |
