[**@saflib/identity-http**](../index.md)

***

# Interface: IdentityServiceEnvSchema

Environment variables for the `@saflib/identity` package, including inherited variables.
Generated by `@saflib/env`. To update, make changes to the adjacent `env.schema.json`, navigate to the package root, and run `npm exec saf-env generate`.

## Properties

### ALLOW\_DB\_CREATION?

> `optional` **ALLOW\_DB\_CREATION**: `"true"` \| `"false"`

Whether to allow the creation of new databases. Useful for ensuring existing production environments don't inadvertently create new databases.

***

### CLIENT\_SUBDOMAINS

> **CLIENT\_SUBDOMAINS**: `string`

Comma-separated list of client subdomains, e.g. 'www,app,auth,'. Include an empty string (such as in the example) to indicate there's a client for the root domain.

***

### DEPLOYMENT\_NAME

> **DEPLOYMENT\_NAME**: `string`

The name of the deployment, e.g. 'production', 'staging', 'development'. This may be used in strings such as database file names and logging metadata; each deployment should have a unique name.

***

### DOMAIN

> **DOMAIN**: `string`

The root domain of the deployment, e.g. 'saf.com'.

***

### IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_ADMIN\_EMAILS?

> `optional` **IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_ADMIN\_EMAILS**: `string`

Comma-separated list of emails who will get the 'admin' scope. Emails must be validated to receive this scope.

***

### IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_DISABLE\_RATE\_LIMITING?

> `optional` **IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_DISABLE\_RATE\_LIMITING**: `string`

Whether to disable rate limiting. Set to 'true' to disable.

***

### IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_GRPC\_PORT

> **IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_GRPC\_PORT**: `string`

***

### IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_HTTP\_PORT

> **IDENTITY\_SERVICE\_HTTP\_PORT**: `string`

***

### MOCK\_INTEGRATIONS?

> `optional` **MOCK\_INTEGRATIONS**: `"true"` \| `"false"`

Whether to mock 3rd party integrations. Set to 'true' to mock. And integration packages should respect this setting.

***

### NODE\_ENV

> **NODE\_ENV**: `"development"` \| `"production"` \| `"test"`

The environment of the deployment. Generally should avoid using this, consider its use deprecated, prefer instead more specific environment variables.

***

### NODEMAILER\_TRANSPORT\_CONFIG

> **NODEMAILER\_TRANSPORT\_CONFIG**: `string`

JSON string which can be passed into nodemailer.createTransport. See https://nodemailer.com/usage for more details.

***

### PROTOCOL

> **PROTOCOL**: `"https"` \| `"http"`

The protocol of the deployment, e.g. 'https'

***

### TZ

> **TZ**: `"UTC"`

The timezone of the deployment, e.g. 'America/New_York'. Must be UTC.
