workflows/docs/README.md, before:

# Overview

`saflib-workflows` is a library for defining and running developer workflows, particularly with coding tools such as Cursor, Claude Code, or any similar agentic IDE or CLI-based coding tool. Workflows are written in TypeScript.

The purpose of `saflib-workflows` is to make code generation more reliable for routine work. You can define a series of steps which the agent will follow, with checks and scripts along the way to make sure the work is done according to what is correct for your project or stack. And the workflow itself can be iterated on and optimized over time.

It's also a more portable way to define rules and checklists that can tie into, but are not coupled to, any particular agentic tool. These workflows can be customized for your stack, and for best results the stack should:

- Be TypeScript heavy.
- Run Node version >=22.
- Follow these [best practices](https://docs.saf-demo.online/best-practices.html).

For more information, see [this doc](https://docs.saf-demo.online/workflows.html).

## Command Line Interface

The workflow interface is a command line tool; this works well with agents which can run arbitrary commands so they can automatically continue the workflow. A workflow can also then be "run" by a person to test it, or to understand the process and better review another's work.

To start a workflow, the agent will run a command like this:

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff <workflow-name> <workflow-arguments>
```

The CLI tool will run through the steps until a step prints out a prompt. Then it will print instructions to continue the workflow and exit. The agent will then follow the instructions and then run the command again to continue to the next steps of the workflow. They will (hopefully) continue until the workflow is complete.

See a demo [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6jfG5JH7_8).

### Setup

You will need a dedicated script which imports the workflow definitions from other packages or locations in your repository, and passes them to the [provided CLI function](https://docs.saf-demo.online/workflows/docs/ref/functions/runWorkflowCli.html). See for example this repository's [saflib-workflows-cli package](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/tree/main/workflows-cli).

To bootstrap workflows:

1. Run `npm install saflib-workflows` or similar.
2. Add `"bin": { "saf-workflow": "./workflow-cli.ts" }` to your `package.json`.
3. Add the `workflow-cli.ts` file:

```ts
#!/usr/bin/env -S node --experimental-strip-types --disable-warning=ExperimentalWarning

import metaWorkflows from "saflib-workflows/workflows";
import { runWorkflowCli } from "saflib-workflows";

runWorkflowCli([
  // workflows/add-workflow HOOK - do not remove this line
  ...metaWorkflows,
]);
```

You may also need to install [`@types/node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/node) if you haven't already; the generated workflow files need it for the typing to work.

Example setup in [this repo](https://github.com/sderickson/test-workflows-package).

If you'd like to try workflows I've written for [my stack](https://docs.saf-demo.online/), see [saf-template](https://github.com/sderickson/saf-template).

## Adding Workflows

Once the CLI is set up, you can tell your preferred agent to navigate to the package you want to add a workflow to (assuming you're using npm [workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v11/using-npm/workspaces) or some other monorepo approach) and run `npm exec saf-workflow kickoff workflows/add-workflow <name>`. The workflow will create the workflow and integrate it into the CLI file you set up earlier.

For the best experience, provide the agent with the core elements: **steps**, **documents**, and **templates**.

### Steps

The core part of a workflow is a series of steps to complete a task. The steps include:

- **Copying** template files with some simple string replacement
- **Updating** those files-from-templates based on the current task
- **Running Checks** like automated tests or static analysis tools
- **Running Scripts** such as installing dependencies or generating code (deterministically)
- **Prompting** the agent or person

### Documents

Documents provided by the workflow are the source of truth on what the workflow should generate. The workflow itself should not contain documentation; it should focus on directing and orchestrating the agent or person, and only refer to the documentation as part of the process.

Ideally, these documents should live in the same package or module as the workflow, because workflows depend on documentation.

### Templates

These represent the preferred way to structure whatever thing is being created or updated as part of the workflow. You're much more likely to have a reliable result if the agent (or developer!) doesn't have to start from scratch.

The "copy" step in workflows will replace all instances of the string `template-file` with the provided name (usually passed from the CLI), as well as other variants of the string: templateFile, template_file, and TemplateFile.

## Example Workflows

This repository has [several workflows](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Asderickson%2Fsaflib+%22%3D+defineWorkflow%3C%22&type=code) in it as examples. They're continuously updated as I develop the library and how to use it. This repository also is a monorepo, and is how I recommend grouping workflows with documentation.

You can also see the [template file](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/workflows/workflows/add-workflow.templates/template-file.ts) for the "add-workflow" workflow.

## Generating Checklists

The workflow CLI tool includes a `checklist` command which will dry-run the workflow and print out a checklist of the steps the workflow takes. This can be used in documentation, such as the [generated checklist for adding workflows](https://docs.saf-demo.online/workflows/docs/workflows/add-workflow.html#checklist).

Commit message:

Update docs, version 0.2.0 workflows (#173)
Been a minute since I've updated the docs. This is driven by my getting
the next version of the workflow tool ready to publish.

In addition to updating the docs:
* Add a test in CI to make sure all checklists work, because not all of
them did.
* Fix some, in part by adding a "silentError" parameter for parsing
package names.
* For others, fix the example values to be valid.
* Add an "info" command to the workflow CLI tool so that the doc
generator can get that info again
* Fix github source links in a couple commands.
* Cleaned up some absolute paths in checklists.
* Add a `--start-from` option to `npm exec saf-docs generate-all`
* Some improved logging in doc generation
* Deprecate "skipIf" as options for steps, migrate to the generic option
* General doc and export cleanup for workflows, making sure the code
reference section for that library is solid

workflows/docs/README.md, after:

# Overview

---

***NOTE: I'm filling out more extensive workflow documentation [here](https://workflows.saf-demo.online/). This README is still accurate, but check the link for more information.***

---

`saflib-workflows` is a library for defining and running developer workflows, particularly with coding tools such as Cursor, Claude Code, or any similar agentic IDE or CLI-based coding tool. Workflows are written in TypeScript.

The purpose of `saflib-workflows` is to make code generation more reliable for routine work. You can define a series of steps which the agent will follow, with checks and scripts along the way to make sure the work is done according to what is correct for your project or stack. And the workflow itself can be iterated on and optimized over time.

It's also a more portable way to define rules and checklists that can tie into, but are not coupled to, any particular agentic tool. These workflows can be customized for your stack, and for best results the stack should:

- Be TypeScript heavy.
- Run Node version >=22.
- Follow these [best practices](https://docs.saf-demo.online/best-practices.html).

For more information, see [this doc](https://docs.saf-demo.online/workflows.html).

## Command Line Interface

The workflow interface is a command line tool; this works well with agents which can run arbitrary commands so they can automatically continue the workflow. A workflow can also then be "run" by a person to test it, or to understand the process and better review another's work.

To start a workflow, the agent will run a command like this:

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff <workflow-name> <workflow-arguments>
```

The CLI tool will run through the steps until a step prints out a prompt. Then it will print instructions to continue the workflow and exit. The agent will then follow the instructions and then run the command again to continue to the next steps of the workflow. They will (hopefully) continue until the workflow is complete.

See a demo [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p6jfG5JH7_8).

The command line interface can also dry run a workflow, run a workflow without an agent to test the scripts and commands, and can invoke Cursor's headless CLI (support for other agent tools is planned).

### Setup

You will need a dedicated script which imports the workflow definitions from other packages or locations in your repository, and passes them to the [provided CLI function](https://docs.saf-demo.online/workflows/docs/ref/functions/runWorkflowCli.html). See for example this repository's [saflib-workflows-cli package](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/tree/main/workflows-cli).

To bootstrap workflows:

1. Run `npm install saflib-workflows`.
2. Add `"bin": { "saf-workflow": "./workflow-cli.ts" }` to your `package.json`.
3. Add the `workflow-cli.ts` file:

```ts
#!/usr/bin/env -S node --experimental-strip-types --disable-warning=ExperimentalWarning

import metaWorkflows from "saflib-workflows/workflows";
import { runWorkflowCli } from "saflib-workflows";

runWorkflowCli([
  // workflows/add-workflow HOOK - do not remove this line
  ...metaWorkflows,
]);
```

You may also need to install [`@types/node`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@types/node) if you haven't already; the generated workflow files need it for the typing to work.

Example setup in [this repo](https://github.com/sderickson/test-workflows-package).

If you'd like to try workflows I've written for [my stack](https://docs.saf-demo.online/), see [saf-template](https://github.com/sderickson/saf-template).

## Adding Workflows

--- 

***NOTE: the workflow for creating other workflows is a work in progress. It's recommended you instead write your own based on examples, see below for more information.***

---

Once the CLI is set up, you can tell your preferred agent to navigate to the package you want to add a workflow to (assuming you're using npm [workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v11/using-npm/workspaces) or some other monorepo approach) and run `npm exec saf-workflow kickoff workflows/add-workflow <name>`. The workflow will create the workflow and integrate it into the CLI file you set up earlier.

For the best experience, provide the agent with the core elements: **steps**, **documents**, and **templates**.

### Steps

The core part of a workflow is a series of steps to complete a task. The steps include:

- **Copying** template files with some simple string replacement
- **Updating** those files-from-templates based on the current task
- **Running Checks** like automated tests or static analysis tools
- **Running Scripts** such as installing dependencies or generating code (deterministically)
- **Prompting** the agent or person

### Documents

Documents provided by the workflow are the source of truth on what the workflow should generate. The workflow itself should not contain documentation; it should focus on directing and orchestrating the agent or person, and only refer to the documentation as part of the process.

Ideally, these documents should live in the same package or module as the workflow, because workflows depend on documentation.

### Templates

These represent the preferred way to structure whatever thing is being created or updated as part of the workflow. You're much more likely to have a reliable result if the agent (or developer!) doesn't have to start from scratch.

The "copy" step in workflows can take a string-replace function to run on file paths and contents. The workflow library provides utility functions which you may use, or create your own custom templating system.

## Example Workflows

This repository has [several workflows](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Asderickson%2Fsaflib+%22%3D+defineWorkflow%3C%22&type=code) in it as examples. They're continuously updated as I develop the library and how to use it. This repository also is a monorepo, and is how I recommend grouping workflows with documentation.

You can also see the [template file](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/workflows/workflows/add-workflow.templates/template-file.ts) for the "add-workflow" workflow.

## Generating Checklists

The workflow CLI tool includes a `checklist` command which will dry-run the workflow and print out a checklist of the steps the workflow takes. This can be used in documentation, such as the [generated checklist for adding workflows](https://docs.saf-demo.online/workflows/docs/workflows/add-workflow.html#checklist).
