openapi/docs/workflows/init.md, before:

# openapi/init

## Source

[init.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/init.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff openapi/init <name> <path>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Review documentation: [01-overview.md](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/docs/01-overview.md)
- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **openapi.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/openapi.yaml)
  - Upsert **package.json** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/package.json)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/index.ts)
  - Upsert **tsconfig.json** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/tsconfig.json)
- Change working directory to specs/example
- Run `npm exec saf-specs generate`

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: saf-workflow kickoff openapi/init [options] <name> <path>

Create a new API spec package following the @saflib/openapi structure and
conventions

Arguments:
  name        The name of the API spec package to create (e.g., 'user-spec' or
              'analytics-spec')
  path        The path to the target directory for the API spec package (e.g.,
              './specs/example')

Options:
  -h, --help  display help for command

```

Commit message:

Update docs, version 0.2.0 workflows (#173)
Been a minute since I've updated the docs. This is driven by my getting
the next version of the workflow tool ready to publish.

In addition to updating the docs:
* Add a test in CI to make sure all checklists work, because not all of
them did.
* Fix some, in part by adding a "silentError" parameter for parsing
package names.
* For others, fix the example values to be valid.
* Add an "info" command to the workflow CLI tool so that the doc
generator can get that info again
* Fix github source links in a couple commands.
* Cleaned up some absolute paths in checklists.
* Add a `--start-from` option to `npm exec saf-docs generate-all`
* Some improved logging in doc generation
* Deprecate "skipIf" as options for steps, migrate to the generic option
* General doc and export cleanup for workflows, making sure the code
reference section for that library is solid

openapi/docs/workflows/init.md, after:

# openapi/init

## Source

[init.ts](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/init.ts)

## Usage

```bash
npm exec saf-workflow kickoff openapi/init <name> <path>
```

To run this workflow automatically, tell the agent to:

1. Navigate to the target package
2. Run this command
3. Follow the instructions until done

## Checklist

When run, the workflow will:

- Copy template files and rename placeholders.
  - Upsert **openapi.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/openapi.yaml)
  - Upsert **package.json** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/package.json)
  - Upsert **index.ts** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/index.ts)
  - Upsert **tsconfig.json** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/tsconfig.json)
  - Upsert **index.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/events/index.yaml)
  - Upsert **login.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/events/login.yaml)
  - Upsert **signup.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/events/signup.yaml)
  - Upsert **signup_view.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/events/signup_view.yaml)
  - Upsert **verify_email.yaml** from [template](https://github.com/sderickson/saflib/blob/main/openapi/workflows/templates/events/verify_email.yaml)
- Change working directory to specs/example
- Run `npm exec saf-specs generate`

## Help Docs

```bash
Usage: npm exec saf-workflow kickoff openapi/init <name> <path>

Create an OpenAPI package

Arguments:
  name        The name of the API spec package to create (e.g., 'user-spec' or 'analytics-spec')
              Example: "example-spec"
  path        The path to the target directory for the API spec package (e.g., './specs/example')
              Example: "./specs/example"

```
